# Clock
This is a refreshed attempt at the CSS &amp; JavaScript Clock, built as part of 'JavaScript30' with Wes Bos.

This project displays an analog-style clock that shows the current time. It features three hands representing hours, minutes and seconds.

Live demo: https://lukeprosser.github.io/clock2/

## HTML
The HTML markup is really simple - divs are created to hold clock, clock face and individual clock hands.

## CSS
All elements are positioned in the center of the page using 'display: flex' and 'align-items: center'.

The clock's circular shape is generated by applying a border-radius of 50%.

The clock face has a 'transform: translateY(-3px)' applied to account for the height of the clock hands.

To prevent the clock hands from pivoting from their center (which is the default and normally preferred behaviour), 'transform-origin: 100%' is used to set the pivot point to the right-hand side.

The clock hands are also rotated 90 degrees to set the start position to 12 o'clock. A transition of 0.05 seconds is applied in readiness for the change of position via JavaScript.

An interesting feature is the use of 'transition-timing-function' to create a more realistic tick effect using 'cubic-bezier' to force the hands to jump forward slightly and reset with every tick, much like the motion of an actual clock.

## JavaScript
Firstly, the individual hands need to be selected and stored as constants for later use.

A function called 'setDate()' is created with the functionality below:

<ul>
  <li>Grab the current date and time with 'new Date()'.</li>
  <li>Find the current seconds, minutes and hours with 'getSeconds()', 'getMinutes()' and 'getHours()'.</li>
  <li>Convert seconds, minutes and hours to degrees. Seconds and minutes are divided by 60 for the percentage and multipled by 360 for the proportional degree (hours are divided by 12). 90 is added to account for the starting position set in the CSS.</li>
  <li>Change the position of each hand by adjusting the style transform by number of degrees.</li>
  <li>Finally, an if statement checks when the second hand reaches 0 (i.e. the 90 degree offset) and removes the transition effect. This prevents a glitch where the hands move backwards to reset.</li>
</ul>

The 'setInterval(setDate, 1000)' function runs 'setDate()' every second to trigger the clock animations.
